docs/API.md, before:

# API Documentation (v1)

This document describes the REST API endpoints provided by the **Comedy Connect Backend Service**. 

## 🌐 Base URL
- **Local**: `http://localhost:4000`
- **Production**: `https://api.comedyconnect.com`

---

## 🏗️ Architecture
The backend follows a **Service/Repository architecture**.
- **Services**: Contain all business logic, fee calculations, and validation.
- **Repositories**: Handle all data access via Prisma.
- **Controllers**: Thin Next.js API route handlers that delegate to services.

---

## 🔐 Authentication (`/auth`)

### `GET /api/v1/auth/session`
Returns the current active session.
- **Response**: `SessionResponse` (from `@comedy-connect/types`)
- **Note**: Supports both NextAuth and Admin Secure cookies.

### `GET /api/v1/auth/me`
Retrieves detailed profile info for the authenticated user.
- **Auth Required**: Yes

### `POST /api/v1/auth/signin`
Initiates the OAuth sign-in flow (Google).

---

## 👤 Profile (`/profile`)

### `POST /api/v1/profile/update`
Updates user profile information (Name, Bio, etc.).
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Body**: `UpdateProfileRequest`

### `POST /api/v1/profile/delete`
Permanently deletes the user account and all associated data.
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Logic**:
    - **Blocked** if user is a verified creator with future published shows.
    - **Restricted** for Admin users.
- **Side Effects**: Deletes sessions, bookings, and owned shows/comedians.

---

## 🎭 Shows (`/shows`)

### `GET /api/v1/shows`
Lists all public shows (discovery mode) or shows belonging to the user (manage mode).
- **Query Params**:
  - `mode`: `discovery` (default) or `manage`.
- **Response**: `ShowResponse[]`

### `POST /api/v1/shows`
Creates a new show.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (`ORGANIZER_VERIFIED`, `COMEDIAN_VERIFIED`, or `ADMIN`).
- **Body**: `CreateShowRequest`

### `GET /api/v1/shows/:id`
Retrieves details for a specific show.

### `PUT /api/v1/shows/:id`
Updates show details.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Owner or Admin).
- **Restrictions**:
  - **Completed Shows**: Cannot be edited (past end time).
  - **Published Shows**: Critical fields (Title, Date, Venue, Duration) are locked unless updated by Admin.

### `POST /api/v1/shows/:id/publish`
Publishes a draft show.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Owner).

### `POST /api/v1/shows/:id/unpublish`
Unpublishes a show (reverts to draft).
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Admin only if already published). Creators can no longer unpublish active shows.

---

## 🎟️ Bookings (`/bookings`)

### `POST /api/v1/bookings`
Creates a new ticket booking.
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Body**: `CreateBookingRequest`
- **Logic**: Performs atomic inventory update and fee calculation.

### `GET /api/v1/bookings`
Lists all bookings for the authenticated user.

---

## 🎤 Comedians (`/comedians`)

### `GET /api/v1/comedians`
Lists comedian profiles.

### `POST /api/v1/comedian/profile`
Creates or updates a comedian profile.
- **Auth Required**: Any Authenticated User (Onboarding).

---

## 🛠️ Admin (`/admin`)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> All admin endpoints require the `ADMIN` role.

### `GET /api/v1/admin/stats`
Retrieves system-wide metrics (Revenue, Users, Active Shows).

### `GET /api/v1/admin/collections`
Financial breakdown of show revenue and platform fees. Includes detailed Creator info (Organizer/Comedian).

### `POST /api/v1/admin/comedian-users`
Manage comedian verification applications.

---

## 🖼️ Uploads (`/upload`)

### `POST /api/v1/upload/image`
Uploads an image to Cloudinary.
- **Auth Required**: Yes

---

## ⚡ Webhooks (`/webhooks`)

### `POST /webhooks/razorpay`
Handled payment completion events from Razorpay.

---

## 📦 Request/Response Standards

### Success
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... }
}
```

### Error
```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "Error message",
  "code": "ERROR_CODE"
}
```

### Common Error Codes
- `UNAUTHORIZED`: Authentication missing.
- `FORBIDDEN`: Insufficient permissions.
- `NOT_FOUND`: Resource missing.
- `SOLD_OUT`: No tickets available.

Commit message:

fix(fees): clarify platform vs booking fee definitions and restore retroactive fee update logic
- Explicitly define 'Platform Fee' (Commission) vs 'Booking Fee' (Surcharge) in documentation and schema comments.
- Restore 'updateBookingsFees' in AdminRepository to correctly update historical bookings when Admin changes show fee.
- Rename 'Fee' column to 'Platform Fee' in Admin Show Management UI for consistency.
- Update 'README.md', 'DATABASE.md', 'API.md', and 'WORKFLOWS.md' with verified fee terminology.

docs/API.md, after:

# API Documentation (v1)

This document describes the REST API endpoints provided by the **Comedy Connect Backend Service**. 

## 🌐 Base URL
- **Local**: `http://localhost:4000`
- **Production**: `https://api.comedyconnect.com`

---

## 🏗️ Architecture
The backend follows a **Service/Repository architecture**.
- **Services**: Contain all business logic, fee calculations, and validation.
- **Repositories**: Handle all data access via Prisma.
- **Controllers**: Thin Next.js API route handlers that delegate to services.

---

## 🔐 Authentication (`/auth`)

### `GET /api/v1/auth/session`
Returns the current active session.
- **Response**: `SessionResponse` (from `@comedy-connect/types`)
- **Note**: Supports both NextAuth and Admin Secure cookies.

### `GET /api/v1/auth/me`
Retrieves detailed profile info for the authenticated user.
- **Auth Required**: Yes

### `POST /api/v1/auth/signin`
Initiates the OAuth sign-in flow (Google).

---

## 👤 Profile (`/profile`)

### `POST /api/v1/profile/update`
Updates user profile information (Name, Bio, etc.).
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Body**: `UpdateProfileRequest`

### `POST /api/v1/profile/delete`
Permanently deletes the user account and all associated data.
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Logic**:
    - **Blocked** if user is a verified creator with future published shows.
    - **Restricted** for Admin users.
- **Side Effects**: Deletes sessions, bookings, and owned shows/comedians.

---

## 🎭 Shows (`/shows`)

### `GET /api/v1/shows`
Lists all public shows (discovery mode) or shows belonging to the user (manage mode).
- **Query Params**:
  - `mode`: `discovery` (default) or `manage`.
- **Response**: `ShowResponse[]`

### `POST /api/v1/shows`
Creates a new show.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (`ORGANIZER_VERIFIED`, `COMEDIAN_VERIFIED`, or `ADMIN`).
- **Body**: `CreateShowRequest`

### `GET /api/v1/shows/:id`
Retrieves details for a specific show.

### `PUT /api/v1/shows/:id`
Updates show details.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Owner or Admin).
- **Restrictions**:
  - **Completed Shows**: Cannot be edited (past end time).
  - **Published Shows**: Critical fields (Title, Date, Venue, Duration) are locked unless updated by Admin.

### `POST /api/v1/shows/:id/publish`
Publishes a draft show.
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Owner).

### `POST /api/v1/shows/:id/unpublish`
Unpublishes a show (reverts to draft).
- **Auth Required**: Yes (Admin only if already published). Creators can no longer unpublish active shows.

---

## 🎟️ Bookings (`/bookings`)

### `POST /api/v1/bookings`
Creates a new ticket booking.
- **Auth Required**: Yes
- **Body**: `CreateBookingRequest`
- **Logic**: Performs atomic inventory update and calculates:
  - **Platform Fee**: The cut (commission) taken from the Organizer's earnings.
  - **Booking Fee**: The surcharge added to the customer's total.

### `GET /api/v1/bookings`
Lists all bookings for the authenticated user.

---

## 🎤 Comedians (`/comedians`)

### `GET /api/v1/comedians`
Lists comedian profiles.

### `POST /api/v1/comedian/profile`
Creates or updates a comedian profile.
- **Auth Required**: Any Authenticated User (Onboarding).

---

## 🛠️ Admin (`/admin`)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> All admin endpoints require the `ADMIN` role.

### `GET /api/v1/admin/stats`
Retrieves system-wide metrics (Revenue, Users, Active Shows).

### `GET /api/v1/admin/collections`
Financial breakdown of show revenue and platform fees. Includes detailed Creator info (Organizer/Comedian).

### `POST /api/v1/admin/comedian-users`
Manage comedian verification applications.

---

## 🖼️ Uploads (`/upload`)

### `POST /api/v1/upload/image`
Uploads an image to Cloudinary.
- **Auth Required**: Yes

---

## ⚡ Webhooks (`/webhooks`)

### `POST /webhooks/razorpay`
Handled payment completion events from Razorpay.

---

## 📦 Request/Response Standards

### Success
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... }
}
```

### Error
```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "Error message",
  "code": "ERROR_CODE"
}
```

### Common Error Codes
- `UNAUTHORIZED`: Authentication missing.
- `FORBIDDEN`: Insufficient permissions.
- `NOT_FOUND`: Resource missing.
- `SOLD_OUT`: No tickets available.
